Navigate to [imgui bundle docs
homepage](https://pthom.github.io/imgui_bundle) for a more readable
version of this document.

![badge](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle//workflows/CppLib/badge.svg)
![badge](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle//workflows/Pip/badge.svg)
![badge](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle//workflows/Wheels/badge.svg)
![badge](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle//workflows/Emscripten/badge.svg)

# Introduction

## About ImGui Bundle

[ImGui Bundle](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle) is a bundle for
[Dear ImGui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui), including various
powerful libraries from its ecosystem. It enables to easily create ImGui
applications in C++ and Python, under Windows, macOS, and Linux. It is
aimed at application developers, researchers, and beginners who want to
quickly get started.

## Interactive manual & demo in one click!

Click on the animated demonstration below to launch the fully
interactive demonstration.

<figure>
<img src="https://traineq.org/imgui_bundle_doc/demo_bundle8.gif"
id="truc" alt="ImGui Bundle interactive demo" />
<figcaption aria-hidden="true">ImGui Bundle interactive
demo</figcaption>
</figure>

This demonstration is also an interactive manual, similar to the online
[ImGui
Manual](https://pthom.github.io/imgui_manual_online/manual/imgui_manual.html)
=== Batteries included

ImGui Bundle includes:

-   [imgui](https://github.com/ocornut/imgui.git) : Dear ImGui,
    bloat-free Graphical User interface for C++ with minimal
    dependencies

-   [implot](https://github.com/epezent/implot): Immediate Mode Plotting

-   [Hello ImGui](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui.git):
    cross-platform Gui apps with the simplicity of a "Hello World" app

-   [ImGuizmo](https://github.com/CedricGuillemet/ImGuizmo.git):
    Immediate mode 3D gizmo for scene editing and other controls based
    on Dear ImGui

-   [ImGuiColorTextEdit](https://github.com/BalazsJako/ImGuiColorTextEdit):
    Colorizing text editor for ImGui

-   [imgui-node-editor](https://github.com/thedmd/imgui-node-editor):
    Node Editor built using Dear ImGui

-   [imgui-knobs](https://github.com/altschuler/imgui-knobs): Knobs
    widgets for ImGui

-   [ImFileDialog](https://github.com/pthom/ImFileDialog.git): A file
    dialog library for Dear ImGui

-   [portable-file-dialogs](https://github.com/samhocevar/portable-file-dialogs)
    Portable GUI dialogs library (C++11, single-header)

-   [imgui\_md](https://github.com/mekhontsev/imgui_md.git): Markdown
    renderer for Dear ImGui using MD4C parser

-   [imspinner](https://github.com/dalerank/imspinner): Set of nice
    spinners for imgui

-   [imgui\_toggle](https://github.com/cmdwtf/imgui_toggle): A toggle
    switch widget for Dear ImGui.

-   [ImmVision](https://github.com/pthom/immvision.git): immediate image
    debugger and insights

-   [imgui\_tex\_inspect](https://github.com/andyborrell/imgui_tex_inspect):
    A texture inspector tool for Dear ImGui

-   [imgui-command-palette](https://github.com/hnOsmium0001/imgui-command-palette.git):
    a Sublime Text or VSCode style command palette in ImGui

## Easily port your code between python and C++

The python bindings were autogenerated from the original C code and they
closely mirror the original C API, with fully typed bindings, so that
code completion works like a charm.

The original code documentation is meticulously kept inside the python
stubs. See for example the documentation for
[imgui](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/blob/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/imgui/__init__.pyi)
,
[implot](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/blob/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/implot.pyi),
and [hello
imgui](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/blob/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/hello_imgui.pyi)

Thanks to this, porting code between Python and C++ becomes easy.

# Build and install instructions

## Usage with Python

### Install from pypi

    pip install imgui-bundle
    pip install opencv-contrib-python 

-   in order to run the immvision module, install opencv-python or
    opencv-contrib-python

Note: under windows, you might need to install [msvc
redist](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-170#visual-studio-2015-2017-2019-and-2022).

### Install from source:

    git clone https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle.git
    cd imgui_bundle
    git submodule update --init --recursive 
    pip install -v . 
    pip install opencv-contrib-python

-   Since there are lots of submodules, this might take a few minutes

-   The build process might take up to 5 minutes

### Run the python demo

Simply run `imgui_bundle_demo`.

The source for the demos can be found inside
[bindings/imgui\_bundle/demos\_python](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/demos_python).

Consider `imgui_bundle_demo` as an always available manual for ImGui
Bundle with lots of examples and related code source.

## Usage with C++

### Integrate ImGui Bundle in your own project in 5 minutes

The easiest way to use ImGui Bundle in an external project is to use the
example provided in
[example\_integration](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/_example_integration).
This folder includes everything you need to set up your own project with
ImGui Bundle.

### Build ImGui Bundle from source

If you choose to clone this repo, follow these instructions:

    git clone https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle.git
    cd imgui_bundle
    git submodule update --init --recursive 
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make -j 

-   Since there are lots of submodules, this might take a few minutes

-   The build process might take up to 5 minutes

### Run the C++ demo

If you built ImGui Bundle from source, Simply run
`build/bin/demo_imgui_bundle`.

The source for the demos can be found inside
[bindings/imgui\_bundle/demos\_cpp](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/demos_cpp/).

Consider `demo_imgui_bundle` as a manual with lots of examples and
related code source. It is always [available
online](https://traineq.org/ImGuiBundle/emscripten/bin/demo_imgui_bundle.html)

# Development and usage instructions

## Immediate GUI

### Example

Dear ImGui is an implementation of the Immediate Gui paradigm. As an
example is often worth a thousand words, the following code:

C++

    // Display a text
    ImGui::Text("Counter = %i", app_state.counter);
    ImGui::SameLine(); // by default ImGui starts a new line at each widget

    // The following line displays a button
    if (ImGui::Button("increment counter"))
        // And returns true if it was clicked: you can *immediately* handle the click
        app_state.counter += 1;

    // Input a text: in C++, InputText returns a bool and modifies the text directly
    bool changed = ImGui::InputText("Your name?", &app_state.name);
    ImGui::Text("Hello %s!", app_state.name.c_str());

Python

    # Display a text
    imgui.text(f"Counter = {app_state.counter}")
    imgui.same_line()  # by default ImGui starts a new line at each widget

    # The following line displays a button
    if imgui.button("increment counter"):
        # And returns true if it was clicked: you can *immediately* handle the click
        app_state.counter += 1

    # Input a text: in python, input_text returns a tuple(modified, new_value)
    changed, app_state.name = imgui.input_text("Your name?", app_state.name)
    imgui.text(f"Hello {app_state.name}!")

Displays this:

![immediate gui example](doc_images/immediate_gui_example.png)

### Consult the ImGui Manual

Dear ImGui comes with a complete demo. It demonstrates all the widgets,
together with an example code on how to use them.

[ImGui
Manual](https://pthom.github.io/imgui_manual_online/manual/imgui_manual.html)
is an easy way to consult this demo, and to see the corresponding code.
The demo code is in C++, but read on for "Code advices" on how to
translate from C++ to python.

## Hello ImGui

ImGui Bundle is build on top of
[HelloImGui](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui).

### Hello ImGui Features

-   [DPI
    aware](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/tree/master/src/hello_imgui/dpi_aware.h)
    applications (widget placement, window size, font loading and
    scaling)

-   Power Save mode: reduce FPS when application is idle (see
    [RunnerParams.fpsIdle](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/runner_params.h))

-   Theme tweaking (see [demo
    video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4f_-3DDcAZk), and
    [API](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/imgui_theme.h)
    )

-   Window geometry utilities: autosize, restore window position, full
    screen, etc. (see
    [WindowGeometry](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/app_window_params.h))

-   Multiplatform [assets
    embedding](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/hello_imgui_assets.h)

-   Auto initialization of third parties modules, implot,
    imgui-node-editor, markdown, etc. (see
    [ImmApp::AddOnParams](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/external/immapp/immapp/runner.h))

-   Switch between Glfw or Sdl backend (see
    [RunnerParams.backendType](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/runner_params.h))

-   Full multiplatform support: Windows, Linux, OSX, iOS, Emscripten,
    Android (poorly supported). See demo
    [video](https://traineq.org/HelloImGui_6_Platforms.mp4)

The usage of `Hello ImGui` is optional. You can also build an imgui
application from scratch, in C++ or in python (see [python
example](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/demos_python/demos_immapp/imgui_example_glfw_opengl3.py))

HelloImGui is fully configurable by POD (plain old data) structures. See
[their
description](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/hello_imgui_api.md)

### Hello ImGui API

See [Hello ImGui API
doc](https://github.com/pthom/hello_imgui/blob/master/src/hello_imgui/hello_imgui_api.md)

## ImmApp (Immediate App)

ImGui Bundle include a sub library named ImmApp (which stand for
Immediate App). ImmApp is a thin extension of HelloImGui that enables to
easily initialize the ImGuiBundle addons that require additional setup
at startup.

### API

[C++
API](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/external/immapp/immapp/runner.h)

[Python
bindings](https://github.com/pthom/imgui_bundle/tree/main/bindings/imgui_bundle/immapp/immapp_cpp.pyi)

### How to start an application with addons

Some libraries included by ImGui Bundle require an initialization at
startup. ImmApp makes this easy via AddOnParams.

The example program below demonstrates how to run an application which
will use implot (which requires a context to be created at startup), and
imgui\_md (which requires additional fonts to be loaded at startup).

C++

    #include "immapp/immapp.h"
    #include "imgui_md_wrapper/imgui_md_wrapper.h"
    #include "implot/implot.h"
    #include "demo_utils/api_demos.h"
    #include <vector>
    #include <cmath>


    int main(int, char**)
    {
        ChdirBesideAssetsFolder();
        constexpr double pi = 3.1415926535897932384626433;
        std::vector<double> x, y1, y2;
        for (double _x = 0; _x < 4 * pi; _x += 0.01)
        {
            x.push_back(_x);
            y1.push_back(std::cos(_x));
            y2.push_back(std::sin(_x));
        }

        auto gui = [x,y1,y2]()
        {
            ImGuiMd::Render("# This is the plot of _cosinus_ and *sinus*");  // Markdown
            ImPlot::BeginPlot("Plot");
            ImPlot::PlotLine("y1", x.data(), y1.data(), x.size());
            ImPlot::PlotLine("y2", x.data(), y2.data(), x.size());
            ImPlot::EndPlot();
        };

        HelloImGui::SimpleRunnerParams runnerParams { .guiFunction = gui, .windowSize = {600, 400} };
        ImmApp::AddOnsParams addons { .withImplot = true, .withMarkdown = true };
        ImmApp::Run(runnerParams, addons);

        return 0;
    }

Python:

    import numpy as np
    from imgui_bundle import implot, imgui_md, immapp
    from imgui_bundle.demos_python import demo_utils


    def main():
        demo_utils.set_hello_imgui_demo_assets_folder()
        x = np.arange(0, np.pi * 4, 0.01)
        y1 = np.cos(x)
        y2 = np.sin(x)

        def gui():
            imgui_md.render("# This is the plot of _cosinus_ and *sinus*")  # Markdown
            implot.begin_plot("Plot")
            implot.plot_line("y1", x, y1)
            implot.plot_line("y2", x, y2)
            implot.end_plot()

        immapp.run(gui, with_implot=True, with_markdown=True, window_size=(600, 400))


    if __name__ == "__main__":
        main()
